Question 1 of 10
Here’s another one: If the question is Who loves you? or Whom loves you? , a simple answer could be He loves me —not him. In this case, your answer has a he, not a him. No M, so you know the right choice is who. That trick, which I sometimes call the Himlich maneuver, works because like whom , him is an object pronoun, so you’re using it as a test case for your sentence. If your answer has a him, it’s telling you that you need the object pronoun, whom. So even if you don’t know it, when you use the Himlich maneuver, you’re distinguishing between the subject and the object. Good job. Whoever vs. Whomever If you’re comfortable with everything so far, way to go! You probably know more about the use of “whom” than the majority of everyday English speakers. However, they say a little bit of knowledge is a dangerous thing, and you now know enough to get into trouble. You must continue your Grammar Jedi training, or risk being pulled to the Dark Side, or at least, the Muddled and Confused Side. Waiting to trap the unsuspecting writer is the issue of “whoever” versus “whomever.” When you’re faced with a “whoever/whomever” choice, it’s often a good time to dodge the issue and simplify your sentence. At first, there might seem to be no problem. Take a clause like “whoever did this.” We use “whoever” because it’s the subject of “did.” Now take a clause like “whomever I hire.” We use “whomever” because it’s the object of “hire.” So far, so good. The trouble begins with the fact that “whoever did this” and “whomever I hire” aren’t just ordinary clauses; they’re noun clauses —clauses that act just like nouns. When you use these noun clauses as subjects or objects in larger sentences, the picture gets more complicated. Suppose the noun clause “whoever did this” is part of a sentence like “I want to speak to whoever did this.” Uh -oh, you may think, “whoever” is the object of “to,” and it should be “whomever”! But you’d be wrong —“whoever” was the right choice when we were thinking about the clause “whoever did this” by itself, and it’s still the right choice now. But what about that “to,” in “I want to speak to whoever did this”? The answer is that the object of “to” is not “whoever.” It’s the entire clause “whoever did this.” Remember, this is a noun clause; they call it that because the whole thing acts like a noun, and in this case, the whole thing is the object of “to.” Let’s try another example, with the noun clause “whomever I hire.” Suppose it’s part of the sentence “Whomever I hire will start immediately.” What is the subject of “will start immediately”? It’s easy to trick yourself again, and turn that “ whomever” into a “whoever” because it looks like the subject of the sentence. But again, we made the right choice when we looked at “whomever I hire” in isolation, and it’s still the right choice. To avoid the “whoever/whomever” problem altogether, you could rephrase it as as “the person who” or “the person whom,” or even just “the person.” So instead of “I want to speak to whoever did this,” you’d have “I want to speak to the person who did this.” Instead of “Whomever I hire will start immediately,” you could write “The person I hire will start immediately.” When you’re faced with a “whoever/whomever” choice, it’s often a good time to dodge the issue and simplify your sentence.

of “whoever” versus “whomever.”
But you’d be wrong —“whoever” was the right choice when we were thinking about the
an object pronoun, so you’re using it as a test case for your sentence. If your answer has
these noun clauses as subjects or objects in larger sentences, the picture gets more
use “whomever” because it’s the object of “hire.” So far, so good.
ordinary clauses; they’re noun clauses —clauses that act just like nouns. When you use
to speak to whoever did this.” Uh -oh, you may think, “whoever” is the object of “to,” and it
dodge the issue and simplify your sentence.
“whoever” because it’s the subject of “did.” Now take a clause like “whomever I hire.” We
When you’re faced with a “whoever/whomever” choice, it’s often a good time to
The trouble begins with the fact that “whoever did this” and “whomever I hire” aren’t just
If you’re comfortable with everything so far, way to go! You probably know more about the use of “whom” than the majority of everyday English speakers. However, they say a little
object. Good job.
complicated. Suppose the noun clause “whoever did this” is part of a sentence like “I want
bit of knowledge is a dangerous thing, and you now know enough to get into trouble. You
M, so you know the right choice is who.
a him, it’s telling you that you need the object pronoun, whom. So even if you don’t know
should be “whomever”!
must continue your Grammar Jedi training, or risk being pulled to the Dark Side, or at least, the Muddled and Confused Side. Waiting to trap the unsuspecting writer is the issue
Whoever vs. Whomever
That trick, which I sometimes call the Himlich maneuver, works because like whom , him is
answer could be He loves me —not him. In this case, your answer has a he, not a him. No
At first, there might seem to be no problem. Take a clause like “whoever did this.” We use
it, when you use the Himlich maneuver, you’re distinguishing between the subject and the