Question 1 of 10
court reporting under the following circumstances: (1) The reporter or firm is on inactive status; (2) The certification or registration, respectively, to practice court reporting is suspended or terminated; (3) The certification or registration, respectively, to practice court reporting 1s administratively suspended for failure to pay required fees; or (4) The reporter's certification is suspended for failure to comply with continuing education rules adopted by the Supreme Court. (i) A court reporting firm must not engage the services of a certified shorthand reporter who is on inactive status or whose certification is suspended or terminated. G) A certified shorthand reporter must not work for a court reporting firm that is on inactive status or that has a suspended or terminated registration. (k) A certified shorthand reporter or a court reporting firm that violates a Commission order or negotiated settlement with the Commission to resolve a complaint against the reporter or the firm commits a separate act of misconduct subject to additional disciplinary action, unless the Commission order or negotiated settlement was lawfully stayed at the time in question. (l) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms are subject to disciplinary action in accordance with Sections 154.110 and 154.111 of the Texas Government Code for criminal offenses that demonstrate a lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or integrity. The Commission will evaluate criminal offenses and determine appropriate action in accordance with Rule 3.5 and the Commission's Criminal History Guidelines for certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms. The Commission will evaluate the criminal offense for which deferred adjudication is imposed upon a certified shorthand reporter or a court reporting firm in accordance with the Criminal History Guidelines and may suspend or revoke the reporter's certification or the firm's registration in accordance with the Guidelines. (m) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must respond to a party's inquiry within a reasonable time. Repeated failure to respond without good cause is misconduct. (n) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not misrepresent facts, qualifications, or make misleading or deceitful statements to parties. (o) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not falsely swear or commit perjury in any communication regarding court reporting to the Commission or to any court or other governmental entity before which the reporter or firm renders court reporting. (p) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not threaten, assault, or retaliate against parties; make libelous or slanderous statements; or make false public allegations that a party lacks mental capacity. (q) A certified shorthand reporter must not cause or be party to, directly or indirectly, a breach in the security of the court reporter certification examination or any court proceeding. (r) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not enter into, or provide services under, a prohibited contract described by Section 154.115 of the Texas Government Code. 11 AVOID CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (a) A certified shorthand reporter or court reporting firm must disclose to all parties or their attorneys existing or past financial, business, professional, family or social relationships, including contracts for court reporting services, that might reasonably create an appearance of partiality. (b) A certified shorthand reporter who works for a court reporting firm must immediately disclose to the court reporting firm existing or past financial, business, professional, family, or social relationships, including contracts for court reporting services, that might reasonably create an appearance of partiality. A court reporting firm has the same duty to immediately disclose to a certified shorthand reporter upon assignment, existing or past financial, business, professional, family, or social relationships, including contracts for court reporting services, that might reasonably create an appearance of partiality. (c) A court reporting firm or a certified shorthand reporter working independently from a court reporting firm must disclose a conflict within five days after the deposition or other reporting assignment is booked, but no later than three days before such deposition or other reporting assignment is held. The firm or reporter must disclose a conflict immediately if the deposition or other reporting assignment is booked less than three days before it is to be held. (d) A certified shorthand reporter who is to render court reporting of a legal proceeding and who is related within the second degree by affinity or consanguinity to a party or to an attorney for a party to the proceeding shall disclose the relationship in writing to all parties and to the Court as soon as practicable. The reporter must not provide court reporting of the legal

honesty, trustworthiness, or integrity. The Commission will evaluate criminal
(b) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not advertise falsely or otherwise misrepresent the qualifications of a reporter or firm,
be displayed at the primary place of business. A court reporting firm must provide proof of regist ration upon request.
or mitigate the consequences of a violation of the Code by a person under the
DISPLAY OF LICENSE; COMPLAINT INFORMATION
filed for renewal of certification or registration, respectively. Each reporter and
violated this Code.
manner that is false, fraudulent, misleading, or deceptive.
necessary to file complaints about the reporter's services with the Commission.
(m) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must respond to a
SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES
or their attorneys existing or past financial, business, professional, family or
or any court proceeding.
indirectly, a breach in the security of the court reporter certification examination
Commission order or negotiated settlement with the Commission to resolve a
Commission any factual evidence or circumstances that create a
12
affirmatively create an apparent or actual partiality and good cause
proceeding in which the reporter has a financial interest. A certified shorthand
3.5 and the Commission's Criminal History Guidelines for certified shorthand
reasonable belief that a certified shorthand reporter or court reporting firm
This is an excerpt and for study purposes only.
ADVERTISING
reporting services on a contingent fee basis under any circumstances.
The information must include the current mailing address, phone number, and
from a court reporting firm must disclose a conflict within five days after the
18
(4) The reporter's certification is suspended for failure to comply with
reasonably create an appearance of partiality.
(p) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not threaten, assault, or retaliate against parties; make libelous or slanderous statements; or make false public allegations that a party lacks mental capacity.
(c) The Commission publishes the public addresses of certified shorthand
contact reporters or firms to update contact information in certification and
impartial toward each participant in a legal proceeding.
Texas.
(b) A certified shorthand reporter must take reasonable remedial action to avoid
the relationship; or
PROHIBITED DISCRIMINATORY ACT IVITIES
(d) A certified shorthand reporter who is to render court reporting of a legal
(a) Each applicant for certification as a certified shorthand reporter or registration
(b) A certified shorthand reporter must not file a document with the Commission which includes false, misleading, or deceptive statements regarding the
facts, qualifications, or make misleading or deceitful statements to parties.
inactive status or that has a suspended or terminated registration.
(a) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not advertise in a
deposition or other reporting assignment is booked, but no later than three
exists to permit the use of the reporter.
certification upon request by the Court or parties to an action or assignment.
(d) A court reporting firm must provide upon request information necessary to file
(b) A certified shorthand reporter who works for a court reporting firm must immediately disclose to the court reporting firm existing or past financial,
(i) A court reporting firm must not engage the services of a certified shorthand reporter who is on inactive status or whose certification is suspended or
(b) A certified shorthand reporter may display a certificate only if the reporter's
reporters and court reporting firms. The Commission will evaluate the criminal offense for which deferred adjudication is imposed upon a certified shorthand reporter or a court reporting firm in accordance with the Criminal History Guidelines and may suspend or revoke the reporter's certification or the firm's
G) A certified shorthand reporter must not work for a court reporting firm that is on
complaint against the reporter or the firm commits a separate act of misconduct
(d) A certified shorthand reporter who cheats, uses unauthorized materials, or
SUBCHAPTER A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
practicable. The reporter must not provide court reporting of the legal
terminated.
address, phone number, fax number, and e- mail address of an officer, director,
CONTINUING EDUCATION
(2) The Court enters an order finding that the relationship does not
each place of business in the area most frequented by the public, such as a
(a) A certified shorthand reporter or court reporting firm who employs or supervises
complaint with the Commission.
including the reporter's or firm's professional designations or membership in
subject to disciplinary action by the Commission.
subject to additional disciplinary action, unless the Commission order or
education requirements is subject to disciplinary action by the Commission.
A reporter or a firm must not bring the profession into disrepute by making
receives unauthorized assistance during an exam to complete continuing
(c) A court reporting firm or a certified shorthand reporter working independently
(l) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms are subject to
(c) A certified shorthand reporter must provide upon request information
Texas Government Code for criminal offenses that demonstrate a lack of
an unlicensed person to assist in the preparation of a transcript or reporter's record is responsible for any acts of the unlic ensed person relating to court reporting.
(a) A certified shorthand reporter or court reporting firm must disclose to all parties
reporter who obtains or receives an inaccurate certificate of completion or
action if the reporter knows or reasonably should have known of the
reporter's direct supervisory authority. A reporter is subject to disciplinary
all parties or their attorneys upon request at any time an itemization of all rates
(d) A certified shorthand reporter or a court reporting firm must disclose in writing to
proceeding and who is related within the second degree by affinity or
FEES
or reporter must disclose a conflict immediately if the deposition or other
social relationships, including contracts for court reporting services, that might
Commission or to any court or other governmental entity before which the
or managerial employee designated to receive any request for information or
13
AND NOTICE TO CLIENTS
(b) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not, without good
(c) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not file a frivolous
good cause is misconduct.
CHAPTER 52. COURT REPORTERS AND SHORTHAND REPORTING FIRMS
(1) The reporter or firm is on inactive status;
proceeding, unless:
Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not willfully manifest bias
contractor's violation but fails to take reasonable remedial action.
offenses and determine appropriate action in accordance with Rule
current mailing address on file with the Commission by recording it on the form
firm must also report a change of address within 30 days after the effective date of the address change.
like services performed in an action.
the effective date of the change.
GOVERNMENT CODE
complaints about the firm's services with the Commission. The information must include the current mailing address, phone number, and email address of the Commission.
(c) A court reporting firm must take reasonable remedial action to avoid or mitigate
(f) A certified shorthand reporter or a court reporting firm must be fair and
1s administratively suspended for failure to pay required fees; or
as a court reporting firm shall record a current mailing address on the application
(n) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not misrepresent
REPORTERS AND COURT REPORTING FIRMS
(q) A certified shorthand reporter must not cause or be party to, directly or
disclose the relationship in writing to all parties and to the Court as soon as
(a) A court reporting firm in good standing must display its registration certificate at
of disseminating information to the public and providing renewal notices and
unfounded accusations of impropriety.
consanguinity to a party or to an attorney for a party to the proceeding shall
or entity with which the reporter is associated has a financial interest.
must also provide written notice to the Commission of the name, mailing
requirements as set out in Rules 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, and 6.6 of the Rules of the
(c) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must charge all parties
registration in accordance with the Guidelines.
15
(a) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not provide court
reporting assignment is booked less than three days before it is to be held.
(k) A certified shorthand reporter or a court reporting firm that violates a
17
(b) Upon initial registration and each renewal of registration, a court reporting firm
reporter must not render court reporting of a legal proceeding in which a firm
email address of the Commission.
(e) A certified shorthand reporter must not render court reporting of a legal
the consequences of a violation of the Code by an employee or independent contractor of the firm. A firm is subject to disciplinary action if the firm knows or reasonably should have known of the employee's or independent
continuing education rules adopted by the Supreme Court.
reporters and court reporting firms on its website. There is a presumption that
waiting room or lobby. If the affiliate office is a virtual office, registrations must
reporter's compliance with continuing education requirements. A reporter who falsely reports compliance with continuing education requirements may be
11
other correspondence from the Commission. The firm shall provide the
(a) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must report to the
(o) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not falsely swear
AVOID CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
registration files.
to an action the same price for a copy of a transcript or reporter's record or for
to an action the same price for an original transcript or reporter's record.
Judicial Branch Certification Commission adopted by the Supreme Court of
certification is current and in good standing. A reporter must provide proof of
unless the reporter completed or attended the continuing education activity. A
(a) Certified shorthand reporters must comply with the continuing education
(r) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must not enter into, or provide services under, a prohibited contract described by Section 154.115 of the Texas Government Code.
Commission written notice of any change of this information within 30 days after
(3) The certification or registration, respectively, to practice court reporting
or commit perjury in any communication regarding court reporting to the
CONTACT INFORMATION
form. Each certified shorthand reporter and court reporting firm must maintain a
the most recent information on file with the Commission is correct for purposes
with official duties and obligations.
EXPOSE CORRUPT OR DISHONEST CONDUCT OF CERTIFIED SHORTHAND
court reporting services, that might reasonably create an appearance of partiality. A court reporting firm has the same duty to immediately disclose to a certified shorthand reporter upon assignment, existing or past financial,
partiality.
sexual orientation towards any person involved in an action or proceeding.
business, professional, family, or social relationships, including contracts for
days before such deposition or other reporting assignment is held. The firm
16
(2) The certification or registration, respectively, to practice court reporting is suspended or terminated;
business, professional, family, or social relationships, including contracts for court reporting services, that might reasonably create an appearance of
other information to reporters and firms. The Commission is not obligated to
disciplinary action in accordance with Sections 154.110 and 154.111 of the
party's inquiry within a reasonable time. Repeated failure to respond without
19
(c) A certified shorthand reporter must not obtain or accept a certificate of completion or certificate of attendance from a continuing education provider
( l) There is no objection to using the reporter from a party or the court due to
(g) A certified shorthand reporter working as an official reporter or deputy
supervisee's violation but fails to take reasonable remedial action.
and charges.
professional organizations.
negotiated settlement was lawfully stayed at the time in question.
cause, attribute bad motives or unethical conduct to another reporter or firm.
(b) Certified shorthand reporters and court reporting firms must charge all parties
reporter or firm renders court reporting.
certificate of attendance is subject to disciplinary action by the Commission.
14
official reporter must refrain from freelance court reporting which interferes
or prejudice based on race, color, national origin, religion, disability, age, sex, or